docs/command-line-interface/README.md, before:

# Command line Interface

To run ESLint on Node.js, you must have npm installed. If npm is not installed, follow the instructions here: http://npmjs.org/

Once npm is installed, run the following

    npm i -g eslint

This installs the ESLint CLI from the npm repository. To run ESLint, use the following format:

    eslint [options] [file|dir]*

Such as:

    eslint file1.js file2.js

## Options

The command line utility has several options. You can view the options by running `eslint -h`.

```
eslint [options] file.js [file.js] [dir]

Options:
  -h, --help                  Show help.
  -c, --config path::String   Load configuration data from this file.
  --rulesdir [path::String]   Load additional rules from this directory.
  -f, --format String         Use a specific output format. - default: stylish
  -o, --output-file           Outputs the output into a file.
  -v, --version               Outputs the version number.
  --reset                     Set all default rules to off.
  --eslintrc                  Enable loading .eslintrc configuration. -
                              default: true
  --env [String]              Specify environments.
  --plugin [String]           Specify plugins.
  --global [String]           Define global variables.
  --rule Object               Specify rules.
  --ignore-path path::String  Specify the file that contains patterns of files
                              to ignore.
  --ignore                    Enable loading of .eslintignore. - default: true
```

### `-h`, `--help`

This option outputs the help menu, displaying all of the available options. All other flags are ignored when this is present.

### `-c`, `--config`

This option allows you to specify an alternate configuration file for ESLint (see [Configuring ESLint](../configuring) for more). By default, ESLint uses its own configuration file located at `conf/eslint.json`.

Example:

    eslint -c ~/my-eslint.json file.js

This example uses the configuration file at `~/my-eslint.json` instead of the default.

### `-f`, `--format`

This option specifies the output format for the console. Possible formats are "stylish" (the default), "compact", "checkstyle", "jslint-xml", "junit" and "tap".

Example:

    eslint -f compact file.js

When specified, the given format is output to the console. If you'd like to save that output into a file, you can do so on the command line like so:

    eslint -f compact file.js > results.txt

This saves the output into the `results.txt` file.

### `-o`

This option specifies the output file name which can be passes for the output of the task to be put into

Example:

    eslint -o ./test/test.html

When specified, the given format is output into the provided file name.

### `--rulesdir`

This option allows you to specify a second directory from which to load rules files. This allows you to dynamically loading new rules at run time. This is useful when you have custom rules that aren't suitable for being bundled with ESLint.

Example:

    eslint --rulesdir my-rules/ file.js

The rules in your custom rules directory must follow the same format as bundled rules to work properly. You can also specify multiple locations for custom rules by including multiple `--rulesdir` flags:

    eslint --rulesdir my-rules/ --rulesdir my-other-rules/ file.js

### `--reset`

This option turns off all rules enabled in ESLint's default configuration file located at `conf/eslint.json`. ESLint will still report syntax errors.

Example:

    eslint --reset file.js

### `--eslintrc`

This option, on by default, enables automatically loading `.eslintrc` configuration files. Use as `--no-eslintrc` to disable.

Example

    eslint --no-eslintrc file.js

### `--env`

This option enables specific environments. Details about the global variables defined by each environment are available on the [configuration](../configuring) documentation. This flag only enables environments; it does not disable environments set in other configuration files. To specify multiple environments, separate them using commas, or use the flag multiple times.

Example

    eslint --env browser,node file.js
    eslint --env browser --env node file.js
    
### `--plugin`

This option specifies a plugin to load. You can omit the prefix `eslint-plugin-` from the plugin name.
Before using the plugin you have to install it using npm.

Example

    eslint --plugin jquery file.js
    eslint --plugin eslint-plugin-mocha file.js

### `--global`

This option defines global variables so that they will not be flagged as undefined by the `no-undef` rule. Global variables are read-only by default, but appending `:true` to a variable's name makes it writable. To define multiple variables, separate them using commas, or use the flag multiple times.

Example:

    eslint --global require,exports:true file.js
    eslint --global require --global exports:true

### `--rule`

This option specifies rules to be used. They will be merged into any previously defined rules. To start fresh, simply combine with the `--reset` flag. To define multiple rules, separate them using commas, or use the flag multiple times. The [levn](https://github.com/gkz/levn#levn--) format is used for specifying the rules.
If the rule is defined within a plugin you have to prefix the rule ID with the plugin name and a `/`.

Example:

    eslint --rule 'quotes: [2, double]'
    eslint --rule 'guard-for-in: 2' --rule 'brace-style: [2, 1tbs]'
    eslint --rule 'jquery/dollar-sign: 2'

### `--ignore-path`

This option allows you to specify the file to use as your `.eslintignore`. By default, ESLint looks in the current working directory for `.eslintignore`. You can override this behavior by providing a path to a different file.

Example:

  eslint --ignore-path tmp/.eslintignore file.js

### `--ignore`, `--no-ignore`

This options tells ESLint whether it should automatically load an `.eslintignore` file from the current working directory. When set to `false`, or when using `--no-ignore`, no files or directories will be ignored.

Example:

  eslint --ignore false file.js
  eslint --no-ignore file.js

### `-v`, `--version`

This option outputs the current ESLint version onto the console. All other options are ignored when present.

Example:

    eslint -v

## Ignoring files from linting

ESLint supports `.eslintignore` files to exclude files from the linting process when eslint operates on a directory. Files given as individual CLI arguments will be exempt from exclusion. The `.eslintignore` file is a plain text file containing one pattern per line. It can be located in any of the target directory's ancestors; it will affect files in its containing directory as well as all sub-directories. Here's a simple example of a `.eslintignore` file:

```text
node_modules/*
**/vendor/*.js
```

Commit message:

New: Allow reading from STDIN (fixes #368)

docs/command-line-interface/README.md, after:

# Command line Interface

To run ESLint on Node.js, you must have npm installed. If npm is not installed, follow the instructions here: http://npmjs.org/

Once npm is installed, run the following

    npm i -g eslint

This installs the ESLint CLI from the npm repository. To run ESLint, use the following format:

    eslint [options] [file|dir]*

Such as:

    eslint file1.js file2.js

## Options

The command line utility has several options. You can view the options by running `eslint -h`.

```
eslint [options] file.js [file.js] [dir]

Options:
  -h, --help                  Show help.
  -c, --config path::String   Load configuration data from this file.
  --rulesdir [path::String]   Load additional rules from this directory.
  -f, --format String         Use a specific output format. - default: stylish
  -v, --version               Outputs the version number.
  --reset                     Set all default rules to off.
  --eslintrc                  Enable loading .eslintrc configuration. -
                              default: true
  --env [String]              Specify environments.
  --plugin [String]           Specify plugins.
  --global [String]           Define global variables.
  --rule Object               Specify rules.
  --ignore-path path::String  Specify the file that contains patterns of files
                              to ignore.
  --ignore                    Enable loading of .eslintignore. - default: true
  --color                     Enable color in piped output. - default: true
  -o, --output-file path::String  Enable report to be written to a file.
  --stdin                     Lint code provided on <STDIN>. - default: false
```

### `-h`, `--help`

This option outputs the help menu, displaying all of the available options. All other flags are ignored when this is present.

### `-c`, `--config`

This option allows you to specify an alternate configuration file for ESLint (see [Configuring ESLint](../configuring) for more). By default, ESLint uses its own configuration file located at `conf/eslint.json`.

Example:

    eslint -c ~/my-eslint.json file.js

This example uses the configuration file at `~/my-eslint.json` instead of the default.

### `-f`, `--format`

This option specifies the output format for the console. Possible formats are "stylish" (the default), "compact", "checkstyle", "jslint-xml", "junit" and "tap".

Example:

    eslint -f compact file.js

When specified, the given format is output to the console. If you'd like to save that output into a file, you can do so on the command line like so:

    eslint -f compact file.js > results.txt

This saves the output into the `results.txt` file.

### `-o`

This option specifies the output file name which can be passes for the output of the task to be put into

Example:

    eslint -o ./test/test.html

When specified, the given format is output into the provided file name.

### `--rulesdir`

This option allows you to specify a second directory from which to load rules files. This allows you to dynamically loading new rules at run time. This is useful when you have custom rules that aren't suitable for being bundled with ESLint.

Example:

    eslint --rulesdir my-rules/ file.js

The rules in your custom rules directory must follow the same format as bundled rules to work properly. You can also specify multiple locations for custom rules by including multiple `--rulesdir` flags:

    eslint --rulesdir my-rules/ --rulesdir my-other-rules/ file.js

### `--reset`

This option turns off all rules enabled in ESLint's default configuration file located at `conf/eslint.json`. ESLint will still report syntax errors.

Example:

    eslint --reset file.js

### `--eslintrc`

This option, on by default, enables automatically loading `.eslintrc` configuration files. Use as `--no-eslintrc` to disable.

Example

    eslint --no-eslintrc file.js

### `--env`

This option enables specific environments. Details about the global variables defined by each environment are available on the [configuration](../configuring) documentation. This flag only enables environments; it does not disable environments set in other configuration files. To specify multiple environments, separate them using commas, or use the flag multiple times.

Example

    eslint --env browser,node file.js
    eslint --env browser --env node file.js

### `--plugin`

This option specifies a plugin to load. You can omit the prefix `eslint-plugin-` from the plugin name.
Before using the plugin you have to install it using npm.

Example

    eslint --plugin jquery file.js
    eslint --plugin eslint-plugin-mocha file.js

### `--global`

This option defines global variables so that they will not be flagged as undefined by the `no-undef` rule. Global variables are read-only by default, but appending `:true` to a variable's name makes it writable. To define multiple variables, separate them using commas, or use the flag multiple times.

Example:

    eslint --global require,exports:true file.js
    eslint --global require --global exports:true

### `--rule`

This option specifies rules to be used. They will be merged into any previously defined rules. To start fresh, simply combine with the `--reset` flag. To define multiple rules, separate them using commas, or use the flag multiple times. The [levn](https://github.com/gkz/levn#levn--) format is used for specifying the rules.
If the rule is defined within a plugin you have to prefix the rule ID with the plugin name and a `/`.

Example:

    eslint --rule 'quotes: [2, double]'
    eslint --rule 'guard-for-in: 2' --rule 'brace-style: [2, 1tbs]'
    eslint --rule 'jquery/dollar-sign: 2'

### `--ignore-path`

This option allows you to specify the file to use as your `.eslintignore`. By default, ESLint looks in the current working directory for `.eslintignore`. You can override this behavior by providing a path to a different file.

Example:

  eslint --ignore-path tmp/.eslintignore file.js

### `--ignore`, `--no-ignore`

This options tells ESLint whether it should automatically load an `.eslintignore` file from the current working directory. When set to `false`, or when using `--no-ignore`, no files or directories will be ignored.

Example:

  eslint --ignore false file.js
  eslint --no-ignore file.js

### `--stdin`

This option tells ESLint to read and lint source code from STDIN instead files. You can use this to pipe code to ESLint, such as:

```
cat myfile.js | eslint --stdin
```

### `-v`, `--version`

This option outputs the current ESLint version onto the console. All other options are ignored when present.

Example:

    eslint -v

## Ignoring files from linting

ESLint supports `.eslintignore` files to exclude files from the linting process when eslint operates on a directory. Files given as individual CLI arguments will be exempt from exclusion. The `.eslintignore` file is a plain text file containing one pattern per line. It can be located in any of the target directory's ancestors; it will affect files in its containing directory as well as all sub-directories. Here's a simple example of a `.eslintignore` file:

```text
node_modules/*
**/vendor/*.js
```
